---
layout: post
comments: true
title: "Why learning LISP in 2022."
subtitle: "and why lots of superfluous parantheses should not irritate you"
date: 2022-04-24 23:45:13 -0400
background: '/img/posts/02.jpg'
---


With the development of high-level programming languages like Python, R or Scala, gaining large popularity within the last years, the question arises whether older languages such as LISP still are worth learning. Python especially has gained popularity due to code being more easy to read which cannot be stated about LISP having lead to its naming „Lots of Irritating Superfluous Parentheses". 

In this post I will explain why I think the that learning about LISP is still within 2022 although it might not be the language of choice when programming.


# LISP in 2022
LISP (List Processing) was developed in 1958 by Paul McCarthy and Steve Russell also better known for their foundations in artifical intelligence. Why LISP is based on the Lambda Calculus, it is the second oldest programming language to Fortan. However, while LISP also has been stated of being worth learning from even it will not be used anymore, many concepts taken for granted nowadays have their foundations in LISP.

While the most commonly known dialects are Common LISP and Scheme 
Lisp in AuotoCAD
Lisp in programmable calculators
how does commmon LISP differ from Scheme

When used to newer high-level languanges the way LISP are syntactically structed is quite usual. LISP uses *S-expression* for which it is possible to portray and manipulate nested lists. For this the polish notation is used where the operator is stated first. Visualized this can be portraxed by using an abstract syntax tree. 


**Artificial Intelligence is your daily bread** and you want to learn about the foundations

**Code and data are treated similary within LISP** which has lead to it being referrred to as a programmable programming language. While this is often referred to *homoiconicity* when programs written are treated equally to data.   

**You want to learn to write code recursively**

Many **concepts where first introduced in LISP**. While the if statement has first been introduced within LISP, it also founder of multiple other concepts such as garbage collection, 


# Conclusion
LISP might not be the first programming language when you first start off but it is well suited if you want to learn more about concepts and the establishment of how computer science evolved. While with Moore's Law the questions of computation power has become less of an issue this still pertrains an important topic for low-power devices. For this is it most important to learn about concepts such as garbage collection which